Israel and Palestinian militant group
Hamas have agreed to extend their 4-day
truce by another two days qatal which
mediated the deal confirmed the
extension hours before the ceasefire was
due to end on Tuesday the extension
opens the way for the release of more
Israeli hostages being held in Gaza in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners in
Israeli jails now Israel has received a
list of 10 more hostages to be released
today 69 Israeli foreign host es have
already been freed under the terms of
the original deal between Israel and
Hamas in
exchange 150 Palestinian prisoners have
been released from Israeli detention now
Israel says 239 people were seized by
Palestinian militants on October 7th
about 170 are believed to still being
held in Gaza on Monday 11 hostages
arrived back in Israel and have been
reuniting with friends and
family more Israeli hostages finally
free women and children again made up
the latest group to be released by Hamas
the release filmed by the militant group
before they were quickly escorted back
to
Israel and flowing on to
hospitals and waiting
families this is an exciting and heart
feeling moment but we also understand
that is the beginning of a difficult
Rehabilitation process for sain Aras are
still young and have been through an
unbearable experience dual Nationals of
France Argentina and Germany were among
those released including French Israeli
itan yahalomi who was finally able to
reunite with his
mother Palestinians are celebrating
homecomings too with 33 more women and
young people released from Israeli
prisons as part of the
exchange it's an Indescribable Joy I'm
very happy I hope that others will soon
be released from Israeli prisons my
friends my
cousins 150 Palestinian prisoners have
been freed in recent days a last minute
extension of the PO and fighting is
expected to bring further releases on
both
sides Israel has already received a list
of 10 more hostages due to be freed by
Hamas today Israeli troops continue to
patrol gaza's border amid the truce
which is now set to expire on Thursday
but International pressure is growing
for it to be extended even
further Israel has received a list of
more hostages due to be freed by Hamas
as the truce extends
into a fifth day DW correspondent Tanya
Kramer is covering the story from
Jerusalem and told us more they have
received a list of uh more hostages we
don't know exactly um the number yet so
this is part of the extended uh truth
agreement that was um you know agreed
upon on Monday so basically what is
happening now is that the authorities
here are reviewing uh this list and then
they notify uh the families of course
this is good news for the families
because it means now that potentially uh
we will see at least 10 more hostages uh
uh that are would be expected to be
freed later today in exchange for more
Palestinian prisoners that also will be
freed than later
today Tanya how did the extension of the
truce come about and and could we
potentially see it extended
[Applause]
further well I think both sides had
signal that they would be interested in
extending uh the truth each side of
course for their own uh interest so
we've been seeing that the original
agreement provided for this extension
saying that for each additional 10
hostages that Hamas could release uh and
uh the willingness of Israel also to
release more Palestinian uh prisoners uh
the truth could be extended uh for one
more day and this is what we've been
seeing now so it's just an extension uh
for two days uh um that has been agreed
upon on Monday uh under the mediation by
Qatar Egypt but also uh by the United
States um Israel has said that they have
now approved a list of 50 more potential
Palestinian prisoners that could be
released putting it to 350 so far they
have 150 Palestinian prisoners they have
released from uh Israeli prisoners and
Israel has also uh Hamas has also agreed
to the same uh terms but of course it's
all a very fragile process uh I think
there will be a lot of international
pressure we also expecting that the US
Secretary uh of State uh Anthony blinkin
uh will is expected to arrive again in
the region on Thursday just when uh this
new extension uh might expire so um you
know it's seen here day by day today to
see whether these hostages will be
released without further delay and then
we have just to wait and see whether
there will be another extension okay
thank you that's our Tanya Kramer
reporting for us in
Jerusalem the truce in Gaza has been
extended by two days giving the people
living there a temporary sense of
relative calm and a better chance to
access humanitarian aid but Aid
organizations warn the situation for
civilians across the Gaza Strip remains
dire these kids Brave the weather and
still play outside but the cool and riny
conditions are an additional burden for
many in the makeshift shelters in
Gaza the rain and cold have worn me out
and I can't do anything my clothes are
all wet and I can't change them I have
no clothes no food no water I haven't
drank water in two days and there's no
bathroom to
use and that where is eight
[Music]
organizations then of course you've got
you know hundreds of thousands of
children who are not in school who are
in very overcrowded camps who are cold
it's starting to rain who do not have
enough food do not have enough water who
are now at risk of of a disease outbreak
it's a horrendous
situation gaza's Health Service has been
facing chronic shortages since the
fighting
started as patients are transferred from
the north to the South hospitals there
are
overwhelmed the situation is very very
tragic the hospital can't bear this
burden of cases there's no
capacity it means that the equipment is
insufficient tools and consumables are
lacking and there is a shortage of
medical and nursing
staff but thanks to the extended POR in
fighting some Aid is getting to where
it's needed
I would say it's a glimpse of Hope and
Humanity in the middle of the darkness
of war and I strongly hope that this
will enable us to increase even more the
humanitarian Aid to the people in Gaza
that is suffering so much knowing that
uh even with that additional amount of
time it will be impossible to satisfy
all the dramatic needs of the population
in
Gaza these civilians have a Lifeline as
long as the guns stay
silent and I can now speak to K West
Bank and Gaza country director Hiba Tibi
who joins me from ramala in the occupied
West Bank welcome to DW um there has
been a surge in Aid that's entering Gaza
is it is it making a
difference
good morning dear yes of course it makes
a difference every drop of water every
bag of wheat makes a difference
unfortunately as since weeks now we have
been waiting for the moment where we can
cover the needs of people on the ground
uh an all Gaza Strip and the level of
hunger the level of thirst the level of
diseases uh the level of uh uh
displacement is massive
any entry of of food assistance of water
of medical supplies of fuel will make a
huge difference but of course it is not
sufficient what happened over the last
four days and of course with we were
having the clock ticking towards the end
of the day everyone was terrified that
the truth will not be extended uh we
were so reliefed to have additional two
days but 2 days and 4 days and 10 days
are not enough uh a long-term ceasefire
will allow for a more sustained
intervention that would help in the
covering of the needs of people in the
north and in the South and here speaking
of people in the north is Aid reaching
them it is reaching them water has been
distributed but it's in a very very
limited quantities and what we have seen
over the last days is even if they
receive the aid it will be for that
specific day or for the other the the
coming two days so maximum for days so
for instance if they are receiving
bottled water it will last only four
days what we hope is that uh um for
instance the fuel H is is entering Gaza
in sufficient quantity Where the
desalination units fully functioning
there are also some attempts for the
main uh uh unit in Gaza which also makes
a difference there are also some wheat
flow as you can see in the in the on the
report on the screen
bakeries are opening again but but of
course the the quantities are are
limited and not enough for the demand
that exist winter is is is approaching
uh in the region so so what needs to be
done uh to mitigate the impacts of of
that cold and rainy weather uh for
people especially those who are
displaced so not traditionally normally
in in in in Winter whether we like it or
not not we get diseases we get uh our
immune system gets a little bit affected
by the weather imagine being in crowded
places lacking hygiene practices with no
medication malnutrition is happening
across everywhere and of course no way
of of uh um energy to to warm up the
places being un under uh uh under
constant train over the last week and
the last uh we had over the last two
days last week also we had lots of rain
all of that is is unfortunately making
the situation very terrifying where we
are very afraid that that spread of
diseases uh um is going to influence
people's life as as H even more danger
in a more dangerous way compared to
bombing and air strikes Hiba we're
almost out of time but if you could just
quickly tell me um how your staff on the
ground are preparing uh in case this
truce is not
extended
what we have done so far is that we
secured uh um supplies in the north and
in the South today by while we are
speaking these are being distributed our
partners my staff are all on standby we
have secured Water bottled water not in
huge quantities but it makes a
difference as I mentioned medical
supplies for the hospital and what we
call Hygiene kits in addition to shelter
items tents blankets any materials that
would make the people at least under the
cover from that direct train right we
appreciate that Hiba TB she is K uh
excuse me K West Bank and Gaza country
director and all the best to your
colleagues on the ground in Gaza thank
you
Hiba thank